see what we want to do for you guys
today is basically break down the
differences between weightlifting style
squats
how everything starts quat and talk
about both the benefits because some of
them iam bats have been talking about
loads over the last few weeks is we've
been training together and I think it's
benefits to both if you can sort of
utilize a little bit more power thing
style in weightlifting you're going to
strengthen other muscle groups that we
wouldn't touch and maybe some little
bits in terms of mobility in terms of
the powers is what maybe that could
carry her but the other way around as
well we catch a fire today and something
that I like is he's an Olympic level
weightlifter and he wasn't coached by me
but he's just an awesome guy an awesome
athlete and he's going to show you his
stuff with it which has no influence by
what I have to say and I'm going to show
you mine so we've got two different
schools of thought here so you guys can
decide what works best for you so this
will be my first session back into knee
wraps something that I recommend with
knee wraps is you start like I'm not
going to be going heavy because it'll
throw me off a lot and I need to
condition the skin on my sensitive knees
it kind of hurts when you wrap it really
tight but that's something that you
build up the tolerance towards and if
you're thinking about the pain on your
knees when you're trying to go in for a
heavy squat yeah it gets in the way so
we don't want anything to get in the way
I'm supporting with comfort wraps today
usually actually every single time is
what I've already done my body weight
squats as well I did like two sets of 20
[Music]
already started moving
now this is the first time I touch a
barbell empty bar this is 25 kilograms
so the first time I touched a bar it's
kind of smooth that it's comfortable I
used to come in straight to an empty bar
without any of the warm-up stuff I just
used to use that as a warm-up and I was
always quite uncomfortable no big deal
but that felt smooth so I'm ready to
load it straightaway first plate that
goes on the writing faces inwards so if
you ever wondering so that's how it's
done in competition now that's my OCD
yeah well in weightlifting they're
double sided so it doesn't really matter
to you guys you just put them straight
on but a lot of people when they come in
here and they're putting the metal
plates on it's like ah first plate
numbers in every plate after that
numbers out I believe it so that people
can see what that first plate is so it's
got the writing on the first plate and
people are able to read in case they're
colorblind and they don't so everything
here is comes back so we've got a 25
kilo squat bar these are two and a half
kilo clips so that's all calibrated
that's that's from Goliath I love this
bar this is the same type of bar that we
used in my competition the Saints what
Rack the exact same SWA trap it's an AMF
X warlord that's what's used in pro rod
which is going to be my next big
competition and sound with all my
athletes as well a lot of my athletes
competed the biggest competitions in
Australia so there's Pro Raw and big
dogs it's the big one so I'm just going
to tell you about my squat warmer I will
not do any specific mobilizing
necessarily before I squat purely
because I've got very good range the
full weight of this woful for me staying
a little bit tighter stretch reflex I'm
better squatting that way you know would
necessarily spend too much time
stretching and mobilizing in the bottle
position yes again like bar say and I
still start with an empty bar
when was your last nurse what session
last what session was Tuesday
okay I'd say for me to back one front
it's a magical split for weightlifting
of C France what's more relative to what
we do when we're Olympic lifting but
again for me because I'm quite
comfortable in my sitting position in
front rack I'll go to back one front and
do you go for any sort of like PRS
because you're Olympic weightlifter so
like our one rep max yeah okay my one
hit mo Matt Matt back squats 262 front
squats 220 that's just with knee
supports and high bar I've done in the
in my Olympic lifts 160 snatch at 195
clean and jerk at night for Keillor body
weight yeah sweet
[Music]
the belt on Lewis
I start with my equipment very early and
as I get heavier and heavier
I'll go tighter and tighter but that's
just about getting used to the feel of
everything I'll probably even start
wrapping my knees I mean except who do
you think is the better upper-year James
the funny thing is it's hard to feel
myself on myself so it's hard to
actually gauge but then James is good
what I love about James is he's actually
a perfectionist he takes it seriously
and the precision in which he delivers
in every part of his job I got to take
my hat off to that kid so I'm gonna have
to say it James is a better rapper
yeah he's under a lot of pressure when
he raps to me as well he really takes it
seriously which is social for me but in
competition man 10 out of 10 every time
he raps my knees it's a perfect rap so
wow my best competition squad is 375
kilograms in the 110 class which is the
current Australian record I'm very proud
of that one and hugely to think that guy
James he rap money is perfectly under
pressure and every single time I've had
a powerlifting competition I fly that
guy down I pay for his air for an
accommodation because that's how much it
means to me you know and interestingly
something that I see at the highest
level is guys at the back that are
rapping people are randomly like I don't
have a coach here today can you please
rap me for me that's that's maybe it's a
little bit precious of me but I take it
really seriously when I when I want to
rap my name's perfectly it takes a lot
of energy in the hands and if he had to
rap someone else his hands with fatigue
or maybe it wouldn't be perfect for mine
and so I think that if if you're out
there swatting competition and you don't
have your
wrapper you could be you could be doing
better food for thought specific guy you
need a you ever preferred purse on the
day and say okay I'm going to this
competition so do you guys have any one
that can rap can you get someone to rap
me I wouldn't do that yeah I take my guy
James he comes anywhere with me and and
the favor is reciprocated so when he
competes often I've got other members of
the team and I say sorry guys like
James's is there for me it's on deck for
him so these guys have to get their own
rappers as well but but it's not a
common thing like I said maybe I'm
really precious with it but it's really
important to me but I things like that
you do get Precious about like for me I
always have there whenever I was in
international competition I'd have like
I'd have my personal coach I trained
with in Bristol but my competition coach
was someone different and like they both
had a good relationship with each other
so it's like right when I finished
training get me ready for competition
and then Dave would coach me on the
platform because my main coach wouldn't
necessarily travel yeah and like things
like that like you have certain people
that you feel comfortable around when
you're competing like you know I mean
that might one of my friends at the
Commonwealth Games and we've both
competing he was I I was his regular
training partner in Bristol and he was
like I want you to coach me to come off
game I know kind of what I'm doing but I
was competing as well competed the day
after him but I coached him the day
before on the platform yes because for
him he felt more comfortable if I'm
there and sometimes that's more
important necessarily than having
someone that's super knowledgeable if
there's someone there that you're
comfortable
then that's about it I've got a lot of
guys that come internationally for me
but at the same time if they have a
preferred rattler I step back even
though they might think that I'm better
for the job is if they're not used to me
even though I think highly of my rapping
skills if they're not used to mine it
can throw them off big-time
okay I've just put on knee wraps these
are really soft knee wraps these are
really comfortable but at the same time
this makes this weight feel like I'm
just bouncing up and down I know others
knee wraps are there two and a half
minutes so that's what's legal in my
competition in most palliative
competitions that's all that's legal
what a comfortable feeling it's like not
very heavy that's only 130 kilograms but
literally the effort is in holding the
bar on my body and guiding it down to
the sweet spot if I can do that and on
my body in perfect position it just
bounces up and these wraps aren't even
type but as I get heavier and heavier
I'll go tighter and tighter so how look
how low would you go you two'll your
hamstrings touch your cards is that
definitely not not in this type of squat
my hamstrings if we have a look at the
difference between the powerlifter style
Scot which is what I'm doing compared to
the weightlifter squat which is which is
awesome he just loved it he loves it
he's killing himself with his smelling
salts to be licensed but he'll be
squatting full depth it's a very need
dominant type of squat so he's knee
bends a lot and his torso is really
upright so his hips don't bend as much
as mine but his knees Bend a lot more
his hamstrings press his cars that's
pressed against his calves and then he
comes back up with mine a lot more hip
bend so it's it more of a hip dominant
movement and not as much they been so my
hamstring won't press up against my cars
in that bottom position what I'm trying
to achieve in powerlifting competition
is where the crease of the hip sits
below the top of the knee that's the
full depth squat in my competition and
that's what I'm trying to achieve with
sunny I'm not gonna tell him what he's
doing maybe he can how deep do you want
to go in your squats
that sort of a coaches to say bollocks
in subs now for me you want to you want
to do as low as good format the same as
what you say like I can sit with my bum
cheeks pretty much on the floor in my
swap but I'll lose tension so for me
stopping just below my lowest position
so that my back stays nice and flat no
butt wink is probably the best position
for me to explode at the bottom so I'd
say even on my heaviest sports I will
catch a little bounce when I'm squatting
so I might no lower my feet wider and my
butt wings I could get a little bit
deeper but I've got no tension here and
it's gonna make it extremely difficult
to stand up at the bottom so for me I'm
stopping a little bit higher keeping my
back flat here all the tension in my
quads really not so much in the glutes
and in the hips more in the quad that
carries over into my weight and better
to drive up this position here but like
two weeks ago maybe four weeks ago bass
taught me his ways quite and it's a lot
more hips it's a lot more glutes than I
would normally use so what I've been
doing at the moment is squatting my way
because that's what's going to carry
over into my weight lifting but then
backing down to say 160 170 and doing
three drop down sets the way the bass
taught me so using my hips more use my
groups more because for me whenever it
comes to strength training or you know
training specifically for a sport it
doesn't mean that you shouldn't exact
other ways of training because you're
going to get a more balanced get more
balanced really in terms of all the
muscles that you're working so that's
going to support the ones that get
really strong out because I think a lot
of people end up getting injured
sometimes in their training because for
example you get super strong in your
quads really develop the quad muscle and
then neglect a hamstring and muscles are
working in pairs and working together so
you need to keep good balance between
the two muscle groups regardless of
whether the antagonistic and the tagging
istic regardless of whether your
specifically gonna be using them along
hundred kilos
- lightly 190 kilograms
it's what I working on the other day
with no wraps it was kind of moved the
same speed but I can tell you right now
that was very easy because of the routes
the wraps are very soft but that would
probably give me an extra 20 kilograms
for sure when I start tightening my
wraps and I'm gonna use it on my next
set these are my warm are perhaps really
soft and comfortable they don't hurt at
all but then when we've got my
competition stars what stars wrap the
Lillibridge wraps made by pioneer so
these are the guys that taught me how to
squat so Eric Lillibridge can squat four
hundred and eighty kilograms he's
currently the number one 140 kilogram
power lifter in the world they've taught
me everything about the squat and I'm
very grateful for that because it came
from a very good place
that was 170 170 and chucking on 198 no
nice for today feels like swatting raw
that's four plates now so that's 25 kilo
plates for played 25 Qi bar to a half
kilo plates grand total of 230 kilograms
still warming up so if you look at the
difference with the plates compared to
what Sony's using they're very thin
that's a benefit for me when I want to
load so many plates on when you have
bumper plates
it'll probably this same amount of
weight will probably be out to here
which tends to bend the bar a little bit
even though this is a very stiff bar
this is a much thicker bar than what
Sony's using so it doesn't flap as much
but it's just steel and when you put
that much weight on the body bends
slightly so these powerlifting bars are
designed for that to keep it as close as
possible to the center so it doesn't
Bend as much when it bends
that's called whip so it doesn't whip
around on my back that much I don't want
a moving object on my body when I'm
trying to lift as heavy as possible so
that's why we have the thin plate also
also power lifters what a lot more than
weight lifters weight lifters are very
their own use wraps so they're not
squatting as much and they do a cleaning
jerk and a snatch the world record clean
and jerk is probably around 265 at the
moment 265 kilograms which is four Reds
are blue and a clip so so imagine that
but it comes out all the way to the end
they don't really go heavier than that
whereas in powerlifting the biggest
squad in the world
525 kilograms with with knee wraps so
525 kilograms wouldn't fit on the bar if
you use bumper play
so when you're squatting that heavy they
don't feel on the bar unless you've got
these thin plates that's reason number
two for having these plans yeah but it's
a nice piece of string because it's got
the Gucci snake on but when I do
compare you know I don't want to be too
hard because actually it does offer some
support there's no doubt about the
difference in how we wear these compared
to so look at the thickness of one this
is 13 mil clever this does not stretch
tell me the me a Velcro so his head ten
sends me about this I'm sorry ten
centimetres this way so is 110
centimetres but the thickness that's 13
mil yours is probably about five milk
five mils thick and when you get to the
bottom there's no doubt that'll be
stretching you're wearing that for your
comfort which is around just below this
belly button for me and there's my belly
button here so I have it very high which
is not common for a lot of power lifters
either a lot of people prefer further
down this is something that I teach is a
higher belt position it's also a lot
looser so when I went down there to
quite loose but up here I've got a
bigger circumference this is closer to
my diaphragm and I like to use these
muscles here to push out against the
belt I feel it gives me a bit of brace
but if I teach Sonny to do that it feels
odd fitting
that's his brace at the bottom they're
racing exactly that's that's why I put
my belt there so he is bracing up there
which is why I'm bracelet in the same
point and I'm pushing those muscles
against the belt but but my rule is if
you lift a better way with the belt in
your most comfortable position do that
with any of these technical teachings
things like knee rhapsodize is personal
preference to a degree there's not one
wipe right way suits everyone you have
got to play around and try
different things and you know try it for
a little bit if it doesn't work it
doesn't work but give it enough time to
actually go rather just trying something
and it feel strange so you go nap that's
not for me try it for a bit and actually
give it the time of day to see whether
it helps
[Music]
so you always go rips agree well yeah
I'd say most commonly would be threes
and fives rep ranges and I'd work but
you have got play around with it you
know you get get used to working certain
rep ranges I'd say because this is
relatively light in comparison to my
best you do have to you know spend some
time doing at least three reps higher
rep ranges on these weights you know the
other day on your seminar you're talking
about people using the bounce and
catching the bounce it can be useful
client to a degree but then when I
bounce if I bounce and hit the wall
squats over whereas when you're keeping
the tension the whole way through this
one not I'm not keeping tension when I'm
bouncing but when you're slightly more
control about the tempo of the bar it's
much easier to push through a sticking
point than it is when you're when you
catch it about exactly so the speed
difference between mine and sunny squats
you're going to see him speed up in and
out of the hole which is very useful for
for a weightlifter the way that I do it
I will absolutely try and speed up and
not to that degree
I won't go sponsorships Kennedy squat
like if I was no funny suppose he ties
like a bit tissue paper around his
patella shoulder and he is good buying
in and out of fly 360 and he's vegan
right yeah it can be done recive swatter
like when we just train with him in
Miami I mean he didn't just watch super
heavy then he was up around that 220 but
he is actively like chucking himself in
and out of that bottom position he's
like when he's warming up he's really
like doing this yeah in and out the
bottom position
that hurts thinking about it but I
haven't spoken to other squatters that's
what's similar to him and they watch me
squad and they have sent me messages you
know they watch me squat internationally
through the grand through Instagram and
they send me private messages Kevin's
here can someone open the door frame and
they say damn if you only learn how to
throw yourself into it the way I do
you'll bounce up an extra 20 kilograms I
go into you for me it's just like it's
possible but now I have to retrain a
completely different movement I'm strong
my way and I believe the opposite is
true I believe I can get bigger numbers
when I move slowly if I believe that I
could get more with the fastest what
trust me I'd be fast it's even more
relevant in weightlifting people see
weightlifting done really well and think
more speed is good but speeds only good
if you're in control of the bar and
that's why I always say to people you
need to learn how to be in control of
the bar first before you start gaining
speed okay it's like when you first
learn to write bet your daughter doesn't
write her name like that does she learn
right it's slow once you become more
confident you can write your name
without thinking about it
all right very fast same with
weightlifting once you're that drilled
in the movement pattern it naturally
speeds up and I think I start where
you're saying bass it's like you know to
a degree your squats controlled more and
more you do it naturally like you say
you're attempting to move faster it will
start to move faster then you have more
weight and as I get closer into my
further into my competition prep and I'm
more comfortable with the heavier loads
I actually do move it faster as well but
still not as fast as what a lot of high
bus what as we'll do hope
so how many rotations are going that
revolution there you go oh this is gonna
be eight revolutions in revolutions and
this is your last working since my first
wasn't set first working search will
also be my last
[Music]
let's go bears easy nice pump it up it
was kind of comfortable kind of the
first time I've done it with the wraps
in a long time so kind of uncomfortable
as well with it's different definitely
different technique to squatting raw and
that's the first time I've had knee
wraps on since April yeah so I've been
squatting raw without it but six months
now yeah so that's so tender on the skin
honey nice easy nice well it's bad not
bad okay guys I hope you enjoyed a squat
session we only did one or two top sets
each I did once I needed a couple but I
guess that highlights the difference
between two different styles of lifters
I'm a power lifter Sonny's a weight
lifter but we're both squatting decent
numbers and a lot of the techniques do
crossover but it's very different styles
of techniques and my recommendation for
you is if you have the mobility to
perform both types my recommendation is
to perform both types I hope you enjoyed
that session guys